



SITES OF THE GURU: SACRED FOOTHILLS, RIVERS AND CAVES 


WELLSPRINGS OF BLESSINGS IN RURAL NEPAL


NEKHOR IN THE VILLAGES 

     Unlike our previous itinerary in the Kathmandu Valley, the sites of Guru Rinpoché in the broader regions of Nepal are extremely spread out. If possible, hiring a driver for the week would be the best option, though we understand not everyone can afford this. If you wish to visit these sites on a smaller budget, you'll likely need to use Kathmandu as a starting point for each trip. Most of these sites can be visited as a round trip journey from Kathmandu, but we recommend spending at least one night in each location if you have the time. Below is a suggested itinerary if you are able to hire a driver. For those needing to travel by bus, factor in an extra day in Kathmandu between each site. There are ways to take buses directly from each village, but this requires a bit more familiarity with Nepal, the ability to communicate in Nepali, and a tough bottom for the long bus rides.
     As you visit each sites, be prepared for unexpected delays between each place and for things to generally take longer than anticipated. Also keep in mind, these itineraries are only suggestions, feel free to spend extra time in any particular location. Hired drivers in Nepal are generally very flexible and are usually willing to connect you with someone who can help if your needs are beyond their ability. Lastly, be sure to be back in Kathmandu at least one day before your departing flight. You never know when there will be an unexpected transportation strike in Nepal (banda) or Nepali holiday suspending all travel by road. Try not to put yourself in a situation where spending an unanticipated extra day or two at a location will cause major obstacles for your travel plans. 

SEVEN DAY ITINERARY OUTLINE

Day 1: Boudha (See the "Practicalities” section for more information regarding arrival)
Day 2: Ngatupchen
Day 3: Tsawarong
Day 4: Chumik Changchup
Day 5: Yarinak
Day 6: Maratika
Day 7: Back to Boudha or Other Parts Kathmandu