




GURU PADMASAMBHAVA IN NEPAL

(Click here to embark on the journey or read the short introduction below)
Following in the footsteps of our precious Lotus-Born Guru, we want to invite you to join this pilgrimage through Nepal. As you will discover, the mountains and valleys of Nepal played a pivotal role in the life of Guru Rinpoché, the precious master of Uddiyana. In these hills and valleys, Guru Padmasambhava practiced for years in retreat, gave countless teachings to disciples, hid teachings for future generations to discover, and blessed the earth itself. 
The following site descriptions are a companion to our book, Following in Your Footsteps: The Lotus-Born Guru in Nepal, which offers the full stories of these profound sites of spiritual accomplishment.

THE KATHMANDU VALLEY

For centuries, the Kathmandu Valley was blanketed in farmland. The soil contained minerals that provided for abundant crops, which were traded with the neighboring countries of India and Tibet. Nepal itself is named after the valley’s inhabitants, the Newars. The Newars were not only farmers, but also skilled artisans with a long history of copper statuary and temple artwork that was much prized in Tibet and elsewhere. From the earliest days, this trade led to an abundance of wealth, used by the Newars to develop their villages and decorate their temples. Several such temples remain intact to this day, allowing us to enjoy and connect with the valley’s treasury of ancient and sacred places. 
For generations, many of the valley’s Newar population have been devout Buddhists, following and practicing one of the tantric lineages brought from India, reciting the rituals and prayers in Sanskrit. Even today, Newar Buddhists follow strict rules of secrecy, which make it difficult for outsiders to participate or even observe these rituals. Indeed, this tradition is incredibly precious, for it is the only Buddhist lineage that has remained unbroken to the present day within a Hindu society. Thus, unlike in India, the sacred sites of the valley have rarely been neglected. They have been cared for, both ritually and materially, throughout the centuries. 
With urbanization, the ancient temples, once located in forests and fields, have been swallowed up by the city that gave them life. Nevertheless, this chaotic metropolis hosts more monasteries and resident teachers than any other city in the world, with many Buddhist events and programs taking place year-round. 

WORDS FROM THE MASTERS

Kyapjé Jamyang Khyentsé Chökyi Lodrö composed this spontaneous song of joy, while on pilgrimage to Nepal in late 1956:
Nepal Pilgrimage Song

STARTING YOUR PILGRIMAGE: BOUDHA
