




FOLLOWING IN THE FOOTSTEPS OF THE MASTERS


NEKHOR CONNECTS YOU WITH THE SACRED LANDSCAPE OF AWAKENING

An initiative of Samye Translations, Nekhor is driven by a single mission: to connect you with the sacred sites where awakened masters have lived, practiced, and benefited our world. We provide this through online resources, print publications, and on-the-ground expertise — so that those seeking true wisdom can follow in their footsteps, and bring their blessings onto the spiritual path. For a more user friendly version, download our app through iPhone or Android, and subscribe to our YouTube channel for a full visual experience.     
Buddha Shakyamuni
Guru Ngadrama (Guru Rinpoche "Looks Like Me")
Beginning with Buddha Shakyamuni, from whom all streams of Buddhism in our modern age have flowed, and Guru Padmasambhava, the forefather of Tibetan Buddhism, we invite the intrepid spiritual seeker to journey with us through South Asia and explore the physical landscape that is the literal foundation of the Dharma. As Nekhor develops, we aspire to include even more sacred sites associated with such authentic masters.                     

NEKHOR’S WEBCAST SERIES

In celebration of our ten-year anniversary, Nekhor is hosting a monthly webcast series every Guru Rinpoche Day until August, 2026. Closely following the Pema Kathang, The Chronicles of Padma, a biography of Guru Rinpoche revealed by Orgyen Lingpa from Yarlung Sheldrak, the webcast guides the viewers through Guru Rinpoche’s entire life story. You can find the links to all the past recordings below, in multiple languages, and we will continue to post the latest recording every month.
1 - Following in the Footsteps of the Lotus-Born Guru: Aspirations, Birth, Youth and Dharma Entrance
2 - Following in the Footsteps of the Lotus-Born Guru: Gaining Accomplishment in the Charnel Grounds
3 - Following in the Footsteps of the Lotus-Born Guru: Attaining Immortality at Maratika
4 - Following in the Footsteps of the Lotus-Born Guru: Attaining Awakening at Asura and Yangleshö
5 - Following in the Footsteps of the Lotus-Born Guru: Entrance to Tibet and Binding Spirits
6 - Following in the Footsteps of the Lotus-Born Guru: Establishing Samye Monastery
7 - Following in the Footsteps of the Lotus-Born Guru: Transmission of the Dharma to Tibet

NEKHOR NEWS

We are delighted to announce the upcoming release of Following in Your Footsteps: The Lotus Born Guru in Tibet, representing the culmination of a decade of work.
Lhasey Lotsawa is honored to announce the publication of Following in Your Footsteps: The Lotus-Born Guru in India – to be released auspiciously on Guru Padmasambhava’s birthday (July 19th, 2021) via Rangjung Yeshe Publications!
In honor of Chötrul Düchen, we are excited to announce the expansion our pilgrimage project, Nekhor, to incorporate the Eight Great Sites of the Buddha. Through learning of the marvelous deeds of our supreme teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni, we hope this information will inspire your practice.
In honor of Chötrul Düchen, we are excited to announce the expansion our pilgrimage project, Nekhor, to incorporate the Eight Great Sites of the Buddha. Through learning of the marvelous deeds of our supreme teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni, we hope this information will inspire your practice.
We are pleased to launch, on this particularly auspicious Guru Rinpoché Day, the Nekhor app. “Nekhor” in Tibetan means “Circling the Sacred,” or simply “Pilgrimage,” this is exactly what this app will help you do: discover the sacred sites of Guru Padmasambhava through journeying there yourself.

FOLLOW NEKHOR

Stay up-to-date with the latest updates on Nekhor’s projects and pilgrimages by signing up for Samye Institute’s Guru Rinpoché Day and Dakini Day newsletters. Then you can look forward to receiving fresh Dharma teachings and Dharma-related news, including news about the Nekhor, twice a month. 
To sign up, scroll to the bottom of Samye Institute’s homepage, and enter your e-mail where it says “Join our Mailing List”.

NEKHOR ON INSTAGRAM
